 Reporting is a commitment regulated by art. 6 of the Grant Contract, meant to update
on relevant progress in project implementation and demonstrate whether or not the
indicative plan for outputs and activities completion is on track with respect to the
approved description of the project and budget annexed to the GC.
Projects are required to report using specific templates, respecting the deadlines and
providing all information required.

             
        communicate the project achievements, the deliverables and products;


 show the project effects on the beneficiary territories and sectors;
 declare the solutions established for problems found both at organizational and
 ground levels;
 share a positive environment
 make the partnership synergy visible together with the active participation in a
 cross-border framework;  witness the commitment and mativation of the project team;
 describe the collaboration with stakeholders and beneficiaries at both decisionmaking and implementation levels, highlighting all implementation synergies at\par
 cross-border level.

Key issues  :

Reporting is the project business card and not only a pure duty. Accomplishing
a contractual commitment can be used as an opportunity to better
communicate the project at Programme level, establishing since the beginning
an effective project image. Parts of the reports may indeed be used by the ENI
CBC MED Programme for communication and information purposes,
consistently with the Result Based Management approach applied and pursued
both at Programme and project level.

 Who is in charge of reporting? The LB is responsible for reporting on behalf of
the partnership. This means that the LB receives the due, precise and complete
information from the partners, checks the quality of the information provided,
in terms of content (narrative report, annexed tables,
outputs/deliverables/other supporting documents) and in terms of
completeness of the financial information and documents. The LB harmonizes
the information and documents received, drafting an integrated report for the
project as a whole;

Languages:


reporting has to be completed in the language of the project:
English or French. If outputs are drafted in a different language, a brief
description in one of the project languages is requested. A courtesy translation
must be provided in case supporting documents in different languages are
provided during the evaluation of the report.


 The deadlines set in the GC have to be met; in this regard, the inclusion of
 data collection for reporting  in the weekly tasks will help to respect the
reporting timing and submit a complete and coherent dossier. If a project is
unable to meet a reporting deadline, the LB must timely inform the JTS and
submit an official request to the MA for postponing the deadline to submit the
report, for a prior approval.
Reports are drafted and sent to the JTS/MA through the Management Information
System (MIS), the Programme dedicated IT interface among the actors involved in the
Programme and projects management, including LBs, PPs and the projects auditors.

4.3 THE REPORTING FLOW
Understanding the reporting process requires a clear picture of the actors involved, the
procedures and timing.
For the Narrative Reports, the LB is in charge of collecting the partners contributions in
terms of information, outputs and deliverables, and fill in/upload them in the MIS.
With respect to the Financial Reports, each partner (including the LB) enters in the MIS 
the expenses incurred. The contracted Auditor checks the list of expenses in the MIS
against the supporting documents provided by the LB/PPs (and/or in situ checks) and
issues the EVR and annexes.
Partners\rquote  individual EVRs are sent in original to the LB. The LB auditor issues a
consolidated report (and annexes) that is sent to the MA/JTS along with the request for
payment.
Once submitted, reports will be prior assessed by the JTS in order to verify their
admissibility and the completeness of the submitted documents.
The JTS technical assessment on the reported narrative and financial information is
thus carried out on the reports having passed this first administrative check.
During the JTS verifications, clarifications and additional supporting documents may be
required to the LB and partners (via their LB) such as invoices, contracts, tender
documents, timesheet, etc\'85 Additional auditors\rquote  declarations may be requested as
well
Clarifications on reporting have to be provided within 30 calendar days, as per Art. 6.5
of the GC. Different deadlines may be agreed on a case-by-case basis.
The outcomes of the technical check of the JTS may be:

The report is approved;
 
The reports is rejected;

The report is approved with findings, which impacts on the amount of reported
expenditures. This scenario implies: underperformed activities; results have not
been achieved in terms of quality and quantity, tender procedures are not
compliant, etc. As an example, if a project plans to buy equipment (activity) for the
production of environmental data (output) and the equipment is installed at the
very end of the implementation period so that the environmental data are limited
and of no practical use, the total cost of this equipment may be considered
ineligible along with other related costs (i.e. Human Resources in charge for WP
implementation 
The JTS officer may also propose to the MA the application of penalties in case of
poor, late or partial implementation. Irregularities and financial corrections may be
reported as well, along with the not accepted expenditures for reasons that may
be solved in future reports.
Once approved by the JTS, the report is transferred to the MA Operational and
Authorizing Unit in order to define the accepted expenditures and the amount of
further pre-financing or the final balance. Within its assessment, the Operational and
Authorizing Unit may require additional supporting documents and/or clarification to
the LB or to the concerned CCP.
The final step (payment) will be carried out by the Payment and Accounting Unit.
Finally, the LB will receive the outcomes of the assessment including:
a short summary of the quality assessment including recommendations or
corrective actions to be taken, if any 
the list of accepted expenditures;
the list of non-eligible expenditures
the amount of further pre-financing to be received.
